[docs] Describe EAS Update rollback-on-fast-crash in debug guide (#28087)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/debug.mdx

---
title: EAS Update Debugging
sidebar_title: Basic

> description: Learn how to debug EAS Update.

Author: To a stab at it!

---
title: Basic EAS Update Debugging
sidebar_title: Basic

> description: Learn why your update may not be showing up in your app and how to fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use basic debugging techniques to fix an update issue.
```

I'd suggest using the keywords in the description.

If our deployment is not displayed, it means our build is not configured properly for EAS Update. To fix this, [configure our channel](/#configure-channel), [configure our runtime version](/#configure-runtime-version) and verify our [general configuration](/eas-update/debug-advanced/#verifying-app-configuration). We'll need to rebuild our app after making these changes.

> ### Update is crashing and rolling back to a previous version

Reviewer: Let's change to: "Automatic roll back when an update crashes" to be more clear if that's the case.

> If everything on the Deployments page looks correct, but your app is still showing the previous update or the code embedded with the build, it's possible that your app is downloading and applying the update, but the update is crashing prior to rendering your root component. EAS Update will automatically roll back to the previous version if an update crashes shortly after loading. If you do not see the update after successfully using the [`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/) JS API to reload the app after an update is downloaded, this is likely the issue. [Learn more about how EAS Update detects crashes and rolls back to a previous working version](error-recovery/#explaining-the-error-recovery-flow).
> 
> You can our [runtime issue troubleshooting guide](/debugging/runtime-issues/) to see the error that occurs when the update crashes. Publish a new update that fixes the crash to resolve the issue. A common reason that the embedded code may work but an update does not is due to a missing environment variable. [Learn more about how environment variables work in EAS Update](environment-variables/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything looks correct on the deployments page, but your app still shows the previous update or the code embedded with the build, it can be caused by the new update crash. This can happen when this new update crashes before the root component renders after the app downloads and applies the new update. 

Another example of a crash scenario is when the app uses the [`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/) API but doesn't apply the new update. Again, the crash is most likely the culprit.

EAS Update is designed to automatically roll back to the previous update after it detects an update crash. See [how EAS Update detects crashes and rolls back to a previous working version](/eas-update/error-recovery/#explaining-the-error-recovery-flow) for more information.

To diagnose the error causing the update crash:
- See the [Troubleshooting guide on runtime issues](/debugging/runtime-issues/) to apply a strategy to identify the error.
- After identifying the error, publish a new update that fixes the crash to resolve the issue.

Another common reason a new update does not work but embedded code does is due to a missing environment variable. See [how environment variables work with EAS Update](/eas-update/environment-variables/) for more information.
```

Let's improve the verbiage of this section for more clarity and fix broken links. The paragraphs earlier were hard to skim.

If our deployment is not displayed, it means our build is not configured properly for EAS Update. To fix this, [configure our channel](/#configure-channel), [configure our runtime version](/#configure-runtime-version) and verify our [general configuration](/eas-update/debug-advanced/#verifying-app-configuration). We'll need to rebuild our app after making these changes.

### Automatic roll back when an update crashes

> If everything looks correct on the deployments page, but your app still shows the previous update or the code embedded with the build, your new update's code may be crashing. This can happen when this new update crashes before the root component renders after the app downloads and applies the new update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything looks correct on the Deployments page, but your app still shows the previous update or the code embedded with the build, your new update's code may be crashing. This can happen when this new update crashes before the root component renders after the app downloads and applies the new update.
```

I made a small error in my previous suggestion. We should capitalize "Deployments" for consistency on this page since this is a reference of a page on Expo dashboard.
